\lettrine[lines=3, nindent=0em]{T} h[is project serves as a template to be used for creating documents]{.smallcaps}. It's for my own personal use, including styling that I prefer, but anyone is free to use this. Whatever the least restrictive terms available are---that's what this repository is covered by. Fill your boots.

## Requirements

- Pandoc --- [Link](https://pandoc.org/)
- \LaTeX\ --- [Link](https://www.latex-project.org/) to visit the website. Specifically, I am using `xelatex` as the pdf-engine to use system fonts.

## Outline

You can overwrite the text in this document using [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/), which is extremely simple. View the documentation for more detail on how to use Markdown.

The beauty of this setup is that, thanks to pandoc, you can use Markdown and \LaTeX\ in the same document to produce beautiful documents incredibly easily.

\lettrine[lines=3, nindent=0em]{Y} o[u should check out the metadata first]{.smallcaps}. There is a separate [yaml]{.smallcaps} file called [metadata.yaml]{.smallcaps} which contains a few variables. You can leave it alone if you want obviously. Afterwards, simply write in [template.md]{.smallcaps} whatever it is you want to write. Then, run [make]{.smallcaps} in your command line and---hey presto---you will find a file called [output.pdf]{.smallcaps} in the same folder.

## Document Metadata

```yaml
author: Gerard Keane
title: Document Title
date: \today
```

Hopefully these are self-explanatory. If you want, you can write dates in the following format:

```yaml
date: 9^th^ April 2019
```

Which will produce a date like this:

7^th^ April 2019.

If you leave it alone you will get today's date in the format:

April 9, 2019.

## Table of Contents

The table of contents (*toc*), list of tables (*lot*) and list of figures (*lof*) can be automatically generated by using the following lines:

```yaml
lot: false
toc: true
lof: false
```

They will be on a separate page from the title thanks to the following line in the [yaml]{.smallcaps} header, which you shouldn't touch.

```yaml
include-before:
- '`\newpage{}`{=latex}'
```

## Typography

The fonts used by the document are controlloed by the following variables:

```yaml
mainfont: "Hoefler Text"
sansfont: "Helvetica Neue"
monofont: "Fira Code"
```

[Mainfont]{.smallcaps} represents the body text of the document. [Sansfont]{.smallcaps} is used for the section headers throughout, and [monfont]{.smallcaps} is used for representing code, such as the blocks you can see in this section.

You can use any font installed on your system for these.

The fontsize is obviously set by:

```yaml
fontsize: 12pt
```

## Margins

The document is set to have 3cm margins all around the document. Set by the following line:

```yaml
geometry: [top=3cm, bottom=3cm, left=3cm, right=3cm]
```

## \LaTeX\ Magic

The few minor alterations I have made to the default pandoc template are included in the section [header-includes]{.smallcaps}, as below:

```yaml
header-includes:
  # Font setup
  - \newfontfamily\headingfont[]{Gill Sans}
  - \newfontfamily\dropcapfont[]{Helvetica Neue}
  # Setting The Title Styling to Gill Sans
  - \usepackage{titling}
  - \pretitle{\begin{center}\bfseries\headingfont\Huge\MakeUppercase}
  - \posttitle{\end{center}\vspace{2em}}
  # Setting the section heading styling to Helvetica
  - \usepackage{sectsty}
  - \allsectionsfont{\sffamily}
  # For Drop Caps / Lettrines
  - \usepackage{lettrine}
  - \renewcommand{\LettrineFontHook}{\dropcapfont\bfseries}  # {\color{BrickRed}\headingfont}
  # Lorem Ipsum Generator for helping layout document
  - \usepackage{lipsum}
```

Since pandoc uses \LaTeX\ to generate pdfs, one can use any \LaTeX\ package in the manner described above. This is an extremely powerful tool and I urge you to examine the possibilities of this if you are in any way interested in further customising this document. There's a whole world out there.

I have set the title to use Gill Sans, and ensured that it is all uppercase. I have also set the section headings to use the sans-serif font as per the [typography]{.smallcaps} section above.

You can alter these however you like, I simply prefer the aesthetic of sans-serif headers and serif body text.

# Examples

## Mathematics

**Input**:

```markdown
$$
\frac{sales - costs}{costs} \times 100 = markup \%
$$
```

**Output**:

$$
\frac{sales - costs}{costs} \times 100 = markup \%
$$

## Lists

### Unordered Lists

**Input**:

```markdown
- First Item
- Second Item
- Third Item
```

**Output**:

- First Item
- Second Item
- Third Item

### Ordered Lists

**Input**:

```markdown
1. First Item
2. Second Item
3. Third Item
```

**Output**:

1. First Item
2. Second Item
3. Third Item

## Text Emphasis

**Input**:

```markdown
This is *italicised text*
```

**Output**:

This is *italicised text*

**Input**:

```markdown
This is **bold text**
```

**Output**:

This is **bold text**

## Tables

**Input**:

```markdown
Table: Example Table

     Sales      Costs       Profit    %
---------- ---------- ------------ ----
556,415.42 701,645.04 (145,229.62)  -26
```

**Output**:

Table: Example Table

     Sales      Costs       Profit    %
---------- ---------- ------------ ----
556,415.42 701,645.04 (145,229.62)  -26

## Drop Caps & Lettrines

Drop caps and lettrines are more complicated to use, as they are not covered by pandoc markdown. But since we are using \LaTeX\ to produce the pdf, we can use \LaTeX\ classes throughout our document. Consider the following:

```latex
\lettrine[lines=9, findent=-3em, nindent=0.2em, slope=0.5em]{A} l[l your base are 
belong to us]{.smallcaps}. \lipsum[1]
```

This code specifies a *Drop Cap* 9 lines deep, with the first line brought closer to the letter by [-3em]{.smallcaps} and the following lines pushed away from the letter [0.2em]{.smallcaps}, sloping away by [0.5em]{.smallcaps}. Some *Lorem Ipusm* is generated to demonstrate. Like this:

\lettrine[lines=9, findent=-3em, nindent=0.2em, slope=0.5em]{A} l[l your base are belong to us]{.smallcaps}. \lipsum[1]

Experiment away with this, as you have an extraordinary amount of control over the appearance of this, even without editing [metadata.yaml]{.smallcaps}. You can view the documentation for the `\lettrine` package [here](http://ctan.mirrors.hoobly.com/macros/latex/contrib/lettrine/doc/lettrine.pdf). Be warned though that not everything will necesarily work through pandoc, so test carefully. For instance, you are *supposed* to use it like this:

```latex
\lettrine[lines=9]{A}{ll your base are belong to us}. Lorem ipsum...
```

But instead, thanks to some unknown vagary, we are forced to do this:

```latex
\lettrine[lines=9]{A} l[l your base are belong to us]{.smallcaps}.
Lorem ipsum...
```

I don't know why, and I've spent long enough trying to work it out. Suffice it to say that this works, and let's leave it at that.